---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/03 Processing/A series of Letters to The Monster/Encouragement/","tags":["letter","person/mom"]}
---

in order to interact with me, I believe you need to do three things, you need to learn how to learn, learn how to change, and learn who I am. part of what makes this letter so clumsy to write is that I hate telling people how to think. I don't like insulting someone's intelligence. it's not fair to you and it's not fair in terms of an open dialogue. but you have demonstrated that you wish to be spoon fed. I can't do that, that is not interaction, that is instruction. people were not made for instruction, but rather, collaboration. and I can't collaborate with a learner that wishes to be spoon fed. 

I imagine that you won't manage to read this by the time you receive it, so I hope the name does it's job. You are not an idiot for not knowing how computers work, you're an idiot for assuming that you can't figure it out. learning is an additory process and if you don't know anything about computers, then perhaps you should learn about computers. But I'm afraid the real problem is that you forgot how to learn at all. At the moment of writing, you may think that my method of communication to be hyperbolic, I was not intending to be. But seeing you not know how to do the simplest action you could possibly do with a computer has made me realize that you know very few things, and learning is an additory process. It is not I that is hyperbolic, but rather, you who is rigid. I wish to interact with a different Esther.

I think you wish not to put effort into understanding anything. remember that you literally taught me how to think, and I think that you want us to struggle a bit, but still pick the "right option" in the end. and it seems like the "right option" is for me to stop being myself. this is me, I am this person. interacting with you is so hard because it's obvious that you're not interacting with *me* and you realistically maybe never have. you're interacting with Jake, I am not Jake. Jake is not a person, Jake is a character in a play that you created. many trans people seem to have a mentality that if you don't call them their preferred name or pronouns that you hate them or don't care about them. I think that that's a bit dramatic. I understand that you don't understand anything about me, because you're not interacting with me, and if you're not interacting with me, why should I put effort into interacting with you? I wish to interact with a different Esther.

I've told you many many times that you need to change and for a moment there you fooled me. but it is obvious that you do not have the will to change at the moment. There are people who never change, and that is very sad to me, because the universe is change, it is a dance. it's all an organism, it's all interacting with itself all the time, as Alan Watts puts it: "you didn't come into this world, you came out of it." you are the universe perceiving itself, there is a world of beauty inside and around you, me and all of us. and for some reason you don't seem to appreciate it. for the few moments we interact now you have spent your time yelling at me. I hate is when you speak to me because I know there's a chance you will yell about some arbitrary bullshit that doesn't matter. last week it was because you don't know how to read a text file. perhaps you will never read this, but I hope you do. but first I need to know that you're willing to put in the effort. and you the only thing you've demonstrated that you're willing to do is yell at me over it. I think that what you really need is to learn how to learn, learn how to change, and then and only then could you possibly understand me.

*"I don't know what I am until I know what you are"* - Alan Watts

~ Lewa 💚